Stable Axisymmetric Models for M31 and the Milky Way
----------------------------------------------------

This is the model for M31 (model A) described in Widrow and Dubinski and is found
to be stable against the bar instability when integrated over 5 Gyrs.

I use the unix "make" facility to simplify the use of the various programmes.
As a user, you need to edit the various parameter files to define your
model (see README.parameters) and then simply type "make galaxy" or "make
galaxy_ascii" if you want the ascii version of the n-body file.  This
will compute and tabulate the gravitational potential expansion coefficients,
the disk distribution function coefficients and then build the actual N-body
files for each component.  

Notes on Units
--------------

All models are generated assuming that the gravitational constant G=1.
Therefore when defining units of length, time and mass it is useful to set
the units for two of the quantities and so that third is constrained by the
assumption that G=1.  Assigning of length and velocity are the most natural
thing to do.  For the M31 and Milky Way model, we use units of kpc for length and
100 km/s for velocity.  This sets the unit of mass to 2.3e9 solar masses and the
unit of time to about 10^7 years.

Files
-----

The important files that are created are:

dbh.dat     - file describing the potential expansion coefficients
cordbh.dat  - disk distribution function correction coefficients
freqdbh.dat - omega and kappa tables for the total potential used for disk DF
mr.dat      - a small file containing the total mass and radial extent of the
              disk,bulge and halo
disk        - binary n-body file of disk
bulge       - binary n-body file of bulge
halo        - binary n-body file of halo
galaxy      - binary file of the entire galaxy in disk, bulge, halo order
galaxy_ascii.dat - ascii version of galaxy file


Other programmes
----------------

The programme "vcirc" will dump out the circular velocity curve of the potential as a
table of (r,vdisk,vbulge,vhalo,vtotal).  Type "make vr.dat" to make this table with
vcirc.

The programme "orbit" in the ./src tree is a sample programme to show you how to call
the function force() that gives you the radial and vertical force generated by the
smooth potential of the model.  This is useful for computing testparticle orbits
within the potential or using as a background potential in N-body simulations.

-----
John Dubinski
May-31-2005

